# Polivoks Mods
This repository contains details of modifications to my Formanta Polivoks synthesiser

Please note that these are modifications I've successfully made to my own Polivoks. Bear in mind that I have absolutely no electronics qualifications - so be sure to fully understand the implications of any changes you might wish to make to your own synth, especially as there have been several revisions to the Polivoks boards.

1. Fitted a Logich Duophonic MIDI kit. Problem free installation according to the instructions, but with additional inline Dupont connectors in some of the wiring. This allows the Polivoks X1 oscillator card and the corresponding main board to be fully disconnected from the newly added components. See the picture.
2. Replaced the very badly worn LFO (Modulator) 100k potentiometer. The replacement is 1M, which allows much lower frequency modulation at the expense of some compression of the higher frequency end of the scale. The new pot (top right) is just visible in the photo of the MIDI interface.
3. Replaced the Out, Ext.In and Phones DIN sockets with 1/4" jack sockets. I only connected the high-level output to the jack socket and just insulated the end of the low-level wire. This modification involves removal of the plastic panel on the back of the Polivoks in order to gain access to drill out the rivets holding the DIN sockets. The plastic panel appears to have been secured originally by melting the ends of four plastic pegs which protrude through the rear aluminium sheet of the Polivoks case. This melted area was carefully flaked off leaving as much of the central part of the pegs as possible. This made it easy to refit the panel at the end of the modification. I used blobs of black polystyrene dissolved in a little toluene (to the consistency of a thick syrup) applied to the tips of the pegs inside the case. The result is almost indistinguishable from the original fitting.
The 1/4" jack sockets need a smaller hole than the original DIN sockets. I 3D printed some spacers, but it should be possible to use a washer on each side of the aluminium panel instead.
VERY IMPORTANT NOTE! My Polivoks had solid wires soldered to the tags on the body of the DIN sockets. The resulting earth connection to the aluminium case is ESSENTIAL for correct functioning of the synth, so be sure to add an alternative connection to the chassis if you use plastic jack sockets. The Modulator/LFO in my Polivoks stopped working correctly until I re-established this connection.
4. The auto-repeating AD envelope mode worked fine in the VCA section of my Polivoks, but in the Filter section the envelope would only give a single cycle and not autorepeat. I attempted to simulate this using CircuitJS1 and (after a little tweaking of component values) managed to reproduce the incorrect behaviour of the ADSR in my synth. I've included my [CircuitJS1 simulation](https://www.falstad.com/circuit/circuitjs.html?ctz=CQAgjCAMB0l3BWcAWaAOZYDMYEE4xIAmBAdgDZyJy0QkFI6BTAWjDACgAXELLckMixFeNQcKjgo0BMNJZSYImGRoKNATATlkq8lkgH8kUmhGFGAEyYAzAIYBXADZcOAJ15FGWDJ8aZNcHg4dz9BVTDVRkYveA4Ac0i0by9BPEDIBNFaXVp+HJ1JTIB3Xn5xEWF-CRLIiSrw2kyPfLKBVtbGCziWsSJSSrEDZElYkNKOobEAqA4JocgRjtTa5e8h8syeHyXUmYbGNhAWLQNTPmRFNCw8BCIsY600NB1cPGu0O+R3oKtbRxcc14vgaa1m81o-UGkO04OyIBIAhmiLhyNh+0Ws22YgQujadDxXWkshw2mSpEgzyIujwxIQhE+Jm0mBI9N+IGs9mcrg8M1ygjASPSkm64wFQqRgoJI1qM1xSxxhNCcvI-il+BEMWCWTleBEM1VTVR6tV4uls0SfAE2m85TIGSBDSElT2UtlUv5+02jumHokM0ylkEhT5-ql5gAcphVMrkgiBoI48MRcF3QIUVEEbDZXGM7mE80wndIc86EQjbFHXby0Wa4Xi2lrTWG4wbT06BR4yJ7bxMV0xjmYrCeyjaiPh52obM7CBDRVZwnnSBaUoZMdV0hRXBZ9BqXhSAMoZQNU1oD4EAhkuXZKQAgffmLM-y5-yxzXvk28isgQ2Gj2Dj+nbJv+35Bv+vg9sg26RtGaCAe0qT-mIY6dlBraoW68HwuBMocGBer4uQ1L4jBKhwR45Cwq0REKkauDaqUNHYUByFApR7RiDQeSsYxpbUaWS61Fx87kIuNShPIHG0BStGSJccS8dx0mYp03AgBQJa0MkMSlocECrue1xYJcol3DWJywOk9w7CYRCUGg7wPBYHL-NyEkLCMGn4l0DBipJ8JeappSBXc6lTE0EnlOWykjNFowUrU-lxV5cWJZicXCalbGlhlOXZlhKKZflilZgI2mlXC5UolVBYcAASvCKJWhV0SCP2a6tVokVIhIMnzl0qZAn1S7CYJQ3lEupChWNwXTb100RJkiSjYUo1xtEeHqZiyCFP5O2xS5XKArN+oRFN+qFIl027RNl3ZQUnnbXdPCmCMS5oH6mpSBZWBkGQGDkmYNIkI8Z43DccA2UyfXOZyAKuC9viZh9SLreuoMMP07xCBY5YDEgFmY7ihCUTJih4E525w25pQo40IB0-tWKzqWDYDK2dbfauO16osOCquWwhIKcv14JgKj7sguLyOy1PHepoVs4rSonea7PmpkDXq-SIh7cKrVQeARAdUUMjubQ8phRbnYDQxVuJowXktkNis1k7db1fbPZeXOBt6cbwumwgLv6r1SPiYkdM6wz6qc4l0xxq9DuVR6wpR0olXbsmdPJrUOeYnT1IbbTHpStc+qYbTYZlRIRDEasqTsJUoVN3Cv3mBn7coLhpRoeAGdLq3soSK3g8q7wLcD9uQ9AoPA8SPrs8L9apqL6UNrLivXQZ2Opqtxq-eaj+BH7yf4+ZsmF-fr3SZ7HGr6z7f-iFABvcv3shQz2-Iyj3GX9hGAICqQi6zBaL4EBXcQFagbjEQ2kDDarHAYbQuCDlQRDrm9cM9dxCPmnqhaC9dZ4EMwemQhvd0HEXLgiMhdA96diYoAzQbFiKMNnJQ4ubCRj5hEOtIEU5uFlgiqUKcDY4rOwmKkHYYQgrSL6MRVSABlahslWGdEkPYJwABnJgoxPaqN8CoJYvg-ZGxNtEM2DVVEtzxF3ExbAvrmODuvDOhi6AuIImOdxPCIhgA8UCAG4ACIBKYnnCITFhIhPupwlmFsPYzgIKHEQ+4eo8PAATXAD54DSEgIAimkAEkHlkMgaympYC5JwPkrwGB5KUgEFuIECSzQOUlEw2mwoZjNOBD3ZcQFfDJP6g0geEROkPzaUiYZ7TeHrxPhnZ428j60z-rM++i1-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-Q8WQAGkTAc1V+1U+lf1UFoLgHIqG6pfsFKc0SEB+hIFEm9VDjLxUAB1NFuCYLWp1rh3VEaTbSays4B5UfFQogjrGzAClOcoB4xT-CoYAPI2BsIRj6ZQOPYF4MUoDxEJOGuzeAKK2YQCusFuwGc6r-1qCIukKa6RhDGNgHACAMQGZczudgdo2ThYcCAA) (Polivoks_ADSR.txt) and a cleaned up, translated and corrected (the + and - annotation of the inverting and non-inverting inputs on A5 was reversed) copy of the filter schematic (Filter Block.png). The problem appears to hinge around the comparator op-amp A5, where the simulation suggests that the voltage on the non-inverting input at the end of the decay cycle doesn't fall quite low enough to trigger the repeat. This does appear to be the case in practice. I replaced 100k resistor R19 on the filter board (U4) in my Polivoks with 110k (the blue resistor in the photo) and the AD autorepeat now works perfectly. I suspect that adding a smaller (<10k) padding resistor in series with the original 100k would have worked fine as the repeating AD mode now works even with the sustain setting a little above minimum, but as this isn't an issue I'll leave it as is.
